This scene, illustrated for Akbar by the artists Miskina and Banwali around 1590,
takes place at Karra in Northern India in the year 1567.
This man dressed in green is Mirza Rezavi Mirak.
And this is an elephant tasked with his execution.
You might be wondering how Mirak got himself into this predicament.
Mirak was a close follower and companion of Ali Quli Shaibani, a brave warrior in Akbar's military campaigns.
Shaibani earned the title Khan Zaman as well as a plot of land due to his wartime success.
Khan Zaman, however, was not always sure where his loyalty lie,
or at least that is what  his rebel behaviour indicated.
However, Mirak believed wholeheartedly that Khan Zaman was to be trusted by the empire,
and so he stood up for him in front of Akbar's court and pleaded for his companion's life.
Akbar, this time, was merciful and granted Khan Zaman grace due to Mirak's efforts on his behalf.
Unfortunately, Akbar's goodwill was wasted, for Khan Zaman's loyalty to the empire again faltered in the year 1566,
and he was deemed both a rebel and a disgrace.
Among his misdemeanors was scandalous sexual behaviour including overt displays of homosexuality
with none other than Akbar's young and attractive bodyguard, Shaham Beg.
It would appear that Khan Zaman was not deserving of Mirak's loyalty and defense.
In the Akbarnama, Abu'l Fazl explains that according to Akbar's orders, Khan Zaman was hunted down and
"trampled under the foot of the elephant, or rather, under the weight of his sins and ingratitude"
As we can see in the depiction here of Karra in 1567,
elephants were commonly used as a means of corporal punishment during the reign of the Mughals.
They were chosen over other wild beasts for the fact that they were easily trained,
making them swift and obedient deliverers of justice and divine retribution.
This training paradigm worked to Mirak's advantage in our tale.
As the story goes, following Khan Zaman's brutal death, Akbar set his sights on squashing the rest of the rebel uprising in Karra,
for Akbar believed that Mirak was a guilty party in all of this.
According to the Akbarnama and the accompanying depiction here,
all of the other perceived rebels were killed by means of elephant execution while Mirak waited to learn his fate.
Finally, when all others had perished, an elephant took hold of Mirak and flung him from side to side with his trunk,
not just for one day, or two, but a total of five days, with no reprieve.
He did not die, however "as a clear sign for his execution had not been given" by the driver,
so accordingly, "the elephant played with him and treated him gently"
At last, Akbar did eventually decide to spare Mirak's life and the elephant executioner was ordered by its master to release him.
This was a strategic move by Akbar, as it not only positioned him as an all-powerful ruler,
but also ensured Mirak's unfailing loyalty to the empire because his life was now indebted to Akbar.
So although Akbar ordered the attack, he was also responsible for its end,
and thus the end of Mirak's fearful dance with death, granting him a new chance to prove his loyalty.